Now rather than configuring switch 2 manually
I’ve created the script that accomplishes the same thing
so type enable conf t change the hostname to switch 2
shutdown any unused interfaces, so gigabit 1/1 - 3 gigabit 2/0 - 3
gigabit 3/0 - 3,  will change the mode to transparent
and then configure the VLANs on the switch,
so I'll simply copy that config, go to the console of switch 2
so IOSvL2-2 this switch and then I'll paste that conf again
interfaces have gone down
so as you can see the hostname of the switch has changed previously
it was called switch but now it's switch 2
sh vlan brief
shows me VLAN 10 and 20, sh vtp status
shows me that this switch is configured in transparent mode.
sh ip int brief
shows me that all unused interfaces have been shut down
sh run will allow me to see that full config of the switch.
So as an example, here you can see the VLANs that were configured.
You can see that ports have been shut down.
What I didn’t do on the previous switch is save the config
so let’s save the config on both the switches before we go any further.
So on switch 1 I'll save the config and on switch 2 I’ll save it
you can see that the configuration was compressed
and has been saved successfully.
So sh startup config
shows me the configuration that we saved.
As you can see here sh startup
and were using so many bytes out of so many bytes.
Last configuration change was made on the 5th of July.
Now for switch 3 what do we need to configure here?
Well, we need to change the switch name
we need to shut down any unused interfaces.
Under this switch we are only using interfaces gigabit 0/0, 0/1 and 0/2
so gigabit 0/3 is not being used so that interface can be shut down
and then any other interfaces on the switch can be shut.
Now to get the idea just to confirm the interfaces on the switch
so sh ip int brief shows me the various interfaces.
So the only interfaces that we need are 00, 01 and 02 those 3 interfaces.
All other interfaces on the switch can be shutdown
and that’s what we're going to do through this config.
I’m also gonna enable the switches are transparent switch
and configure VLANs 10 and 20.
so let’s paste that config in type end
and then I’ll save the config
now for CCNA you would be expected
to know the full command copy running config
startup-config and then present it to save the configuration
to the startup-config but for the real world
wr is the old command that saves a lot of time
and it doesn’t prompt you to specify where you wanna save the file
it simply saves it to the startup-config
so that’s a lot quicker and hence we're using that here.
So we’ve configured switch 3, let's configure switch 4, switch over here.
So this would be exactly the same as switch 3
same interfaces gigabit 0/0 0/1 and 0/2 will be used
all other interfaces will be shutdown
and we'll configured VLAN 10 and 20
on that switch, now you might say that
you don’t actually need VLAN 10 on this switch
because we only have host in VLAN 20 connected to the switch
and that would be correct.
But I’m gonna keep the VLANs consistent on all my switches
because we may wanna add a host in VLAN 10 to the switch
and a host in VLAN 20 to the switch.
so copy the config go to the console of switch 4
so notice 4 and then paste it in
CTRL Z or CTRL Z save the config.
so we've configured the links on the switches
configured the names of the switches
we now need to configure the routers, so on route 1
and I'll just do this manually because it will be quick.
Router 1 has just booted
and we’ve got the initial system configuration dialogue
asking us whether we want to enter that
I’m gonna say no, I’m gonna manually configure the router
so I don’t want to go through the initial configuration dialogue
in this example, I press return to continue
I can see various interfaces are coming up.
So type enable conf t int f0/0 now before I configure interfaces.
notice when I type do sh ip int brief on the router
router interfaces are administratively down by default
unlike switch interfaces, so I don't need to disable interfaces
what I need to do is enable the interface.
before I enable the interface
I'll configure the IP address of this router.
so I'll configure this 10.1.10.11
with the subnet mask of /24 and then I'll no shut the interface of the router.
I'll also need to configure the name.
So I’m just gonna configure that as router 1
and then save the config
So all I’ve done is no shut the interface
and configure an IP address on Fast Ethernet 0/0 on router 1.
On route 2 we'll do something similar.
so we'll bypass the initial configuration dialogue, press enter to continue
type en type conf t
change the name of this router to R2
go on to the FastEthernet interface no shut it
and give it an IP address of 10.1.20.12 and /24 masks.
sh ip int brief that IP address is configured and the interfaces up up.
Save the config.
The last device to configure initially is router 3 here it is
it’s already been configured with the host names.
Interface brief, interfaces all shutdown
so on FastEthernet 0/0
I’m going to no shut it
and in this case, I'll give it an IP address of 10.1.100.253
we'll use 254 for HSRP later.
So I'll configure an IP address on this interface of 10.1.100.253
So that’s an IP address of router 3 on FastEthernet 0/0 interface is up.
Go to the F0/1 interface that interface is currently down
and hasn’t got an IP address assigned to it.
So rather than configuring the IP address manually
I’m gonna type ip address dhcp
so that it gets an IP address from my local physical network
and when I no shut the interface
what we should see in a moment is that it gets an IP address through DHCP.
At the moment we still waiting for an address to be assigned but there you go
this address 192.168.1.128 has been assigned via DHCP to router 3.
So sh ip int brief once again
notice IP address is configured on this interface.
That was allocated via my local DHCP server
which is actually my DSL router here at home.
I’ll save the config, so we have an IP address configured on F0/0
and we have an IP address configured on F0/1.
What I haven’t done is configure IP addresses on these switches
so let’s do that.